Step 1: Open unity software and create a new 
project.
Choose the 2d option, create the project.
Go to window button and open asset store.
Click on Unity essential, then go to sample projects
You see 2d ufo tutorial package then open it.
Import the package in software
Save your scene. (Crtl+s )
Step 2: Setting up the field
Then click on sprites.
This is your 2d ufo sprites.
Drag background to hierarchy.
Then you see right corners inspector button click on it.
Sprite Renderer box is created.
Same as it is ufo. Drag to hierarchy.
You can change the name.
Then you see sorting layer in sprite renderer, then set that layer 
background to background and ufo to player
Step 3: Controlling the player.
Click on ufo and add component
Click on 2d physics
Click on rigidbody
Then you see in inspector rigidbody box created
We need to create a script for moving our ufo
Click on add component and create
Name the script.
That script darg into your asset scripts
Open the
script
Write that script into it.
Then test your game..
Then your ufo fall down because of gravity scale
Go to rigidbody2d and gravity scale 1 to change 0.
Then your ufo speed is so slow then go to your script and add that 2 
lines
“ Public float speed ; ”
“ (movement *speed) ;”
Go to inspector and see your rigidbody 2d is updated with 
speed
Set your speed
Step 4 : Adding Collision.
Go to add component and type circle collider this is for ufo.
This is the circle collider.
This the Radius 2.15 for ufo collider. 
Then we use as same for our background.
Go to add componet and go to 2d physics and choose box ollider.
Then go to your scene and 1inch down you see shaded button click on this and 
change to wireframe.
Then set you x axis offset size 14.3 and y axis is zero. 
Box collider size for x axis 3.3 and y axis is 31.64.
Step 5: Follwing the player with camera…
That is a simple for camera
We need to create script for camera control
That is our script
And that script drag to player script
Step 6: Creating a collectables objects.
// Then you see.. you drag a ufo to hierarchy same as it go to sprites an take 
pick ups object and drag it….
Click on pick up and see inspector click on sprite render set sorting layer to 
pick ups
Then deactivate player object….
Then go to add component and add again circle collider box for our 
pick objects.
Then we need to create a game object
Go to game object and create empty click on it..
Then our new object is created ..
And drag into 1st pickup in new game object..
see this…
Then create duplicate our object
Go to edit and duplicate
Step 7: picking a collectables object..
See we create pick ups object then we need change our script in player 
module.
Then go inspector see circle collider box the right corner you see setting 
button and book manual. Click on book manual
And click on it..
You see description of these..
Copy the code and paste our ufo script
Then delete this 2 lines 
1st public bool
2nd characterInQuicksand.
The type that code in script.
Step 8: Collecting object count and Displying score….
Go to player script again and add the code.
“ Private in count ;”
Add “ count =0 ; ”
Count = count+1;
Create gaming ui object
Last statement is void setcountext() close there {} parameters
And add ”” countText.text = “Count”+ count.Tostring();” 
In void setcount stament…
And go to hierchay ui object count text drag to inspectorcontroller 
script darg into count text
see this I will show…Then add text for win!!!! Text.
Step 9: Building a game
Go to edit and select building setting.
And click add current 
And build this game
Save your game in my computer.





